The error

text
rsync: connection unexpectedly closed (0 bytes received so far) [sender]
rsync error: unexplained error (code 255) at io.c(232) [sender=3.2.7]
is most commonly caused by problems with the SSH connection or the remote rsync command. Here are the main causes and steps to diagnose:

rsync is not installed on the target system:
If the remote system does not have rsync installed, the SSH connection will succeed, but the remote shell will not find the rsync command, causing the connection to close unexpectedly.

SSH connection issues:
If SSH cannot connect (due to authentication failure, firewall, network issues, or host key problems), rsync will fail with this error. Test your SSH connection separately using:

bash
ssh user@remotehost
If this fails, resolve the SSH issue first.

SSH key or host key issues:
Problems such as a changed host key, missing or incorrect SSH keys, or ECDSA host key changes can cause the connection to be refused or closed.

Network or timeout issues:
Network interruptions or SSH timeouts can break the connection, leading to this error. Increasing SSH timeout settings can help in some cases.

Firewall or security restrictions:
A firewall on the remote host may be blocking SSH connections or rate-limiting them, causing intermittent failures.

How to Diagnose and Fix
Check if rsync is installed on the remote host
Log in via SSH and run rsync --version. If it’s missing, install it.

Test the SSH connection directly
Run ssh user@remotehost to ensure you can connect without issues.

Check SSH keys and known_hosts
If you see errors about host key verification or DNS spoofing, clear the old key using:

bash
ssh-keygen -R remotehost
Then reconnect to accept the new key.

Review firewall rules
Make sure your IP is not blocked or rate-limited by the remote firewall.

Increase SSH timeout settings
Add the following to your ~/.ssh/config to help with timeouts:

text
Host *
  ServerAliveInterval 60
  ServerAliveCountMax 30
Verbose output for debugging
Add -v or -vvv to your rsync or ssh command to get more detailed error messages.

In summary, this error nearly always means rsync or SSH failed on the remote end—most often because rsync is missing or SSH cannot connect/authenticate properly
